In github, folder is referred to as repository(The main folder), and in the system(laptop, PC) folder is referred to as directory. So, in the context of github, a repository is a collection of files and folders

GIT CLONE
To clone a project from github, copy the https link of the project, open terminal, navigate to the desired directory(folder), and run the following command:
git clone https://github.com/username/repository.git
The repository will be cloned in the current directory.

GIT STATUS
Checking status is one the important task as it shows which files are modified or untracked(added).
To check the status use the command:
git status
This command will show which files are modified, untracked, or deleted.

GIT ADD
Now we have updated the project in only our system. And to commit the changes, we need to add the changes to the staging area. To add the changes to the staging area, use the following command:
git add .(the dot represents all the files in the current directory)
or 
git add filename.txt (to add a specific file)

GIT COMMIT
After adding we need to commit the changes. To commit the changes, use the following command:
git commit -m "message" (the message is the description of the changes. description should be meaningful and understandable)
After committing the changes will be saved in the local repository(i.e in your system only).

GIT PUSH
Finally we push the changes from local repository content to the remote repository(github). To push the changes, use the following command:
git push origin main (origin is the name of the remote repository, and main is the branch name)
here git is the command, and push is the action, and origin is what is considered as the remote repository, and main is the branch in which we are pushing our chnages

HOW TO UPLOAD A REPO ON GITHUB FROM LOCAL MACHINE

Firstly, create a new repository on github. Then, navigate to the local repository on your system by cloning the repository from github. Then, add the changes to the staging area, commit the changes, and finally push the changes to the remote repository(github).

Here's how to do it

First you have to make your repository a git repository and now we can make changes that can be pushed. To do this we have to use the command:
git init

Create a new repo in your local machine(in any desired folder. This folder has no association with github) with command: mkdir (which means make directory)
mkdir LocalRepo
Then , navigate to the local repository in terminal by using the command: cd (which means change directory)
cd LocalRepo
add files, modify files, and delete files as per your requirement.
then add, commit the files.

Now these changes are in your local machine. To upload these changes to the remote repository(github), use the following
commands:
git remote add origin <-link of the repo you've created in github->
here git remote add means add a remote repository, and origin is the name of the remote repository followed by its link

git remote -v (to check the remote repository)

There's one more command to check the branch in which the local repo is pushed. This is done by using the command: 
git branch 
It will show all the branches in which local repo can be pushed. If there's only one branch, it'll be named master. We can push our repo in it, but it 's recommended to push in a new branch. OR we can change the 'master' branch name to 'main'

To create a new branch, use the following command:
git branch -m newbranchname (newbranchname is the name of the new branch)
Then, push the changes to the remote repository(github) by using the following command:
git push -u origin newbranchname (origin is the name of the remote repository, and newbranchname is the branch in which we are pushing our changes)

To change the name of the branch, use the following command:
git branch -M main (main is the new name of the branch)

Then, push the changes to the remote repository(github) by using the command: git push -u origin main.
